so you're planning on giving a toast at
an upcoming Toast Masters meeting or
maybe you're just hoping to give a toast
at any event or even a small gathering
and you're wondering the best way to
proceed in this video I'm going to show
you a live example of me giving a toast
at my Toast Masters Club and I am going
to react in real time to that video and
give you my feedback along the way what
did I do well what could I improve upon
through this video by the end you are
going to have the confidence to give an
unbelievable toast at your next event
before I go any further I want to
explain for the Toast Masters Club what
the toast roll entails and for most
clubs it's a 1 to2 minute roll meaning
it can't be any shorter than 1 minute it
shouldn't be any longer than 2 minutes
and it really sets the tone for the
meeting if you've signed up for the
toast roll it's important to know what
the theme of that week's meeting is
because your toast should in some way
relate to the core of what that meeting
is all about in this example you're
going to see of me delivering the toast
at my Toast Masters Club it was actually
at an open house event we did for Toast
Masters and so there were a lot of new
faces in the audience a lot of guests so
I tried to tailor my toast for that
audience let's dive into it let's take a
look at how I did on my toast and I'm
going to give you my feedback along the
way
[Applause]
why did you show up here
today okay I'm pausing it right away
here so a few things and then we're
actually going to run it back and start
from the beginning again but I want to
pause it you may be noticing that I'm
holding a glass in my hand and usually I
don't like to do this usually for the
toast which I will eventually hold I
will set it on a nearby table but at
this particular meeting there was
nowhere to set the glass and so I was
thinking in my head well what is the
best way for me to approach this and so
I figured I'm going to hold it in my
hand the downside is that it restricts
some of the body language if you're
wondering why is he holding the glass
the whole time that is why all right
let's watch it back from the beginning
less distractions this
time why did you show up here
today Madam Toastmaster fellow Toast
Masters in person on zoom and I'd ask
all of our welcome guess why did you
show up here today okay pausing it there
I really liked how I introduced this
toast what's common anytime somebody
gives a toast or really delivers a
speech of any length is for that person
to come to the front and introduce
themselves right away or if they're in a
Toast Masters format to start with the
formalities as we call them so Madam
Toastmaster fellow Toast Masters welcome
guest what I find works really well is
start starting off with a sentence or a
few sentences that is that hook or that
introduction a thought or a question so
here I said why did you show up here
today and then I got into the
formalities thank you Mr Madam
Toastmaster fellow Toast Masters it has
that just little bit of a draw in I've
draw the audience's attention in and
then at the end I'd especially ask the
welcome guess why did you show up here
today it reinforces this question this
idea so I thought that I was I was proud
of that opening that I did for the toast
and I think it's important when you're
delivering a toast have that strong Hook
from the beginning perhaps the thought
of standing in front of a room and
delivering a speech for one to two
minutes terrifies you but you understand
that this is an important skill to
develop and you were brave enough to
take the first step and come here
today maybe you're a former member of
this club and life has gotten busy for
you but you know how much Toastmasters
helped you in the past so you wanted to
come today to the open house and show
your support to all of our guest going
to pause it here about halfway through
something that I could have improved
upon that I'm noticing watching it back
is you see you can see it on the freeze
frame my eyes the light is shining from
the projector into my eyes and that is
not a great look I didn't notice it
maybe I wasn't observant enough as I was
delivering the toast but that can be a
little bit distracting you can see part
of the zoom being projected behind me
that light is shining in and it's not
ideal I should have taken a step forward
and prevented that so that it was
shining just behind me and it wasn't
blocking my face but I will say I'm
happy with the eye contact that I'm
giving so you'll see my eyes move
throughout the room and periodically you
see them look down but that's not a bad
thing because there's actually a laptop
to the bottom left of the screen and
that is the zoom audience so I'm trying
to include the virtual audience as well
looking at that webcam and then back up
and looking at the audience so something
I was doing well and something I could
have improved upon or maybe you're a
regular member of our Toastmasters Club
and you're thinking wait of course I
showed up I'm a member of this club yeah
but you still had an option this morning
your alarm clock went off I'm sure your
bed was very cozy at 6:00 in the morning
but you came here you came here Through
The Dark Through the somewhat cold
weather and you arrived to show your
support whatever brought you here today
I want to applaud you because
Toastmasters is an organization and a
program that has helped so many people
with their confidence with their
leadership skills and with their public
speaking skills so today I'd ask for all
of you to stand up with
me and raise a glass to showing up to
show all right that's it there you have
it that was the toast I delivered by the
way love to hear in the comments what
you thought overall of how I did on that
toast roll overall I was happy with it I
was happy with it because it was an open
house event and the goal of my toast was
to really make it about the audience and
that brings me to my first tip is that
when you're delivering a toast whether
it's for Toast Masters or whether it's
for a work event or or whether it's for
a personal Gathering think about your
audience think about who you are making
the toast to and the more you can make
it about those people and less about you
yourself the better when somebody stands
up right away and they say oh I did this
and I did that it's it's sometimes not
received well by the audience so really
think about how you make your toast be
about the people who you are with one
thing you may have noticed is at the end
the words that I asked people to
actually toast with was to showing up
showing up it's two words it's very
concise it's very easy to remember and
that brings me to my next tip for you
when you are taking on a toast keep it
concise I have seen many people attempt
to give a toast and then the thing that
you're actually toasting to is long and
convoluted for example to waking up
every day with a positive attitude
and then everyone stands up and they
raise their glass and they say to waking
up every day with a posit and they
forget they're trying to remember all of
the words that were said if you can keep
this to two or three maybe four words
that is ideal for a toast what I love
about the toast is it can be many
different things it can be inspirational
which is probably the most common type
of toast it can be funny it can be
lighthearted it can be genuine all of
those things are okay for a toast you
can really be creative with this make it
what you want it to be but it's a nice
thing to be able to have this skill to
be able to be at a gathering and have
the confidence to grab everyone's
attention and then you have that honor
of all the eyes are on you all the ears
are on you and you can say something
short and concise that adds value to the
evening feedback I got from the general
evaluator on this particular toast she
didn't have any gifts for me or any
constructive criticism which I
appreciated she said that the format and
the theme behind my toast was really
fitting for that audience I was very
happy I was very happy with how this
went of course there were a couple areas
that I could have improved upon but I
want you to know the toast rooll is one
of the best roles for new members to
take on so if you're a new member in the
Toast Masters Club often new members are
nervous to sign up for any roles yet
they'll take on table topics questions
and table topics is way harder because
you can't plan for what you're talking
about the toast roll is great it's nice
and short one to two minutes and you
know what the meeting theme is you have
all week to think about how you're going
to spend that one to two minutes you can
practice it you can time yourself make
it short make it concise make it about
the audience and if you follow these
steps you're going to crush it on your
next toast roll I hope this example
video was helpful for you it was a short
one because it's a short role my name is
Wade Patterson my channel is all about
impactful communication I do a lot of
videos on Toast Masters and a lot of
videos on public speaking in general if
this video added some value to you
please consider subscribing to my
channel and there's other options as
well I have a public speaking course
which has been very helpful for those
who have signed up and I also work with
speakers and aspiring ing speakers one
onone if you need some coaching help if
you want me to evaluate your speeches
whatever it is let me know the email is
in the episode notes because I think
this premium service could truly help a
few of you who are watching this
otherwise thanks for taking the time to
watch I'll catch you on the next video